Today we're going to be talking about
the Kelp GUI where anyone can create
crypto. My name is Nicholas Har and I'm
one of the developers for the Stellar
Development Foundation.
We're going to go over what is kelp,
what is a Kelp GUI version one. We're
going to see some screenshots and then
we're going going to go into a demo and
then have some time for questions later
on.
So what is kelp? Kalp is a trading bot
that has a command line interface. It
was built for the Stellar decentralized
exchange and later on we added support
for over 100 centralized exchanges.
You can customize existing trading
strategies with configuration files.
Today we have four trading strategies.
You can create new trading strategies by
writing your own code. Gelp is written
in Golang. So any trading strategies
that you write would need to be written
in Golang today with the possibility of
supporting more languages in the future.
We open sourced Kelp in the summer of
2018.
The Kelp GUI is a relatively newer
addition to Kelp. It is a GUI to manage
multiple cut bot instances.
Today, it does not work on centralized
exchanges and only works on the Stella
decentralized exchange.
We start off with just one trading
strategy to make it easier for people to
learn how the UI works. You can't create
new trading strategies today, but in the
future, any trading strategies that are
created on kelp will automatically be
supported by the UI.
In addition to writing the back end for
the UI in Golang, we added support for
React for the front end.
The UI was open sourced in the summer of
2019 and only last month did we release
the first release candidate of the UI.
We have an integration for the CCXT REST
server which gives you native access to
data from all of those 100 exchanges
directly into the UI without any
additional installations.
You can download it as a desktop
application and very soon you will be
able to run it in a hosted test net
environment as well.
Let's go ahead and see some screenshots.
So this is what kelp look like when you
first load the application.
You have two options. The first one is
to autogenerate your first test bot.
This is for people who are first-time
users of kelp and gives them a starter
bot that they can use. We have a video
that we uploaded with the blog post
announcement of the kelp y that walks
you through creating your first test bot
through auto generation.
The second option is to create your own
bot, which gives you a little more
controls over the parameters of your
bot.
On the top left, you can see the version
being used for this UI,
and you also have an option to quit the
application when you're done using it.
This is a screen to create a new bot or
to edit an existing bot.
You enter your secret key over here and
you can see the corresponding public
key. You enter the assets that you want
to trade. For XLM, you don't have any
issuer. But for all other assets, you
have an asset issuer.
Coupon out here is just a token asset
that we use. This could represent
anything. It is just a test market.
This is the price feed section for the
buy sell strategy which is the the first
strategy that you are allowed to use on
the UI.
The price feed allows you to set the
prices for the base asset and the quote
asset described on the previous page.
The base asset is always set as a
numerator. In this case, because our
base asset was XLM, we've chosen to
price it as the XLM USDT price from
Binance under the centralized exchange
section. And you can see a sample price
out here in the screenshot.
For the denominator, we're going to
price the coupon asset as one unit of US
dollar. So, we use the fixed value of
1.0.
Again, coupon here is can represent any
asset. For the purposes of this video
and this demo, we're going to be
treating it as a US dollar.
This box out here tells you what the
final calculation is of your price. You
can see how the price is derived. We
basically take the price of the XLM
coupon market. We take the price of the
numerator divided by the denominator
and then we get the final price.
The sentence makes it easier to
understand how you are pricing the asset
which we will go into more detail in the
demo.
At the end here, we have some levels
that tell you how you can price the
different levels
that spread out from the center mid
price that has been set over here of
06192.
Once you've created a few bots, this is
how your kelp application or your kelp
forest is going to look like. We have
the first autogenerated bot of George
the auspicious octopus. We've created
two more bots, Harry the harmless habuka
and Jerry the unsightly shrimp.
If you take a look on the left side, you
can see the markets and the balances of
these bots for those tokens. So George
has about 9,799.99
lumens and 1,0 coupon tokens.
Similarly, Harry has is trading in the
Bitcoin and USD market and Harry has no
balance in either of those markets. And
Jerry is trading in the Lumen BTC market
and has close to to 10,000 lumens.
The spread for both of Harry and Jerry
are negative one because no market
exists. whereas George is currently
running and has created a market with a
spread close to 0.20%.
This spread out here does not
necessarily indicate the spread that
George is creating, but it is the spread
of the market.
You can also see how often the bot is
updated. This is a check on the last
time that we got information about the
spread and the bids and the asks for
this given bot. This typically runs
about 5 seconds by default for the UI.
If you click on the three button menu
over here, you have the option to select
to see the offers and the market for
this given bot and also the to edit the
bot if it is in the stop mode. You could
also delete the bot if you wanted.
Let's go ahead and see a demo of how the
bot works.
So, I've started up the bot in my
machine
and we see the first screen out here.
So, I'm going to go ahead and create the
first bot manually.
So we have Madison the glamorous
sawfish. Let's create a new secret key.
So the
bot will automatically create a new
secret key for us and create the
relevant trust lines. So we don't have
to worry about that.
Let's trade in the USD and euro market.
Now we are trading on the test network
out here and for simplicity let's use
the default asset issuer that we have.
So I'm going to paste that in both of
these
token issuer spaces. Now, one advantage
of using the default asset issuer is
that the bot is going to create
and fund the account with 1,000 units of
each of these tokens.
Now, if we go to the advanced settings,
we can see how often this bot runs. So,
by default, it runs once every 60
seconds. For the purposes of this this
demo, let's change this to 6 seconds.
We also have a randomized delay by
default, which is set to 15 seconds.
Let's set that to zero for now.
There are some more advanced settings
out here, which I won't go into detail
for this video.
When we want to price this market,
let's try and set the best price for the
USD token. Now, because this is a dollar
and we're generally using the dollar
denominator values, we can actually just
use a fixed price of one.
However, for the denominator, we're
pricing the euro token. For that, we
actually want to use the price of the
euro. So, let's go to fiat, which uses
the currency layer API. Let's select
euro.
Now, you notice that it says that the
price is missing. It also has an error
message out here that says that we have
an invalid API key. Of course, because
we don't have an API key out here. So,
I've signed up for a free account for
currency layer. So, I'm going to go
ahead and use that key.
I'm going to refresh this price. And as
you can see, the price is updated. It's
always good to do a sanity check on the
prices that you get over here because
these are the prices that the bot is
going to see when it's running on a
continuous basis. 1.088
as a price for the euro makes sense
because a euro is worth more than a
dollar.
Now, one thing to note about these price
feeds is that the this price that you
see out here is not the price that is
hardcoded into the bot. The bot is going
to run the same query at every time
interval that it runs, which we
previously set to 6 seconds. So, it's
going to get a price that moves with the
market as you have set for this price
feed. So, this is a very active and
dynamic price feed.
As you can see, we run the calculation
of taking the net price that we will
get, which is1 US divided by 1.0888
for the euro price, which gives us
0.91844.
The sentence helps explain that, which
is you are valuing one unit of the US
dollar at 0.91844
units of a euro. This makes sense
because a euro is worth more than a US
dollar.
Now we come to the levels. By default,
the bot starts out with four levels.
Why don't we change these amounts to be
50 just for the purposes of this demo.
And it's being set at a spread value of
0.1%
from the mid price. Which means that the
bid ask spread is 0.2% here, 0.3% here,
0.4% and 0.5%.
Let's create this bot.
So this bot is now in the process of
initializing which means that the
application is creating the necessary
trust lines and issuing the relevant
assets to the the new secret key account
that we created. This usually takes a
little bit of time and it seems like
we're done. So as you can see we have a
th00and units of the of USD as well as
the euro. And if we hover over to this I
icon, we can see the asset issuer.
And the spread, of course, is negative
one because we don't have a market yet.
Now, let's create a second bot that is
going to
compete with the first bot before we
start any of them. So, we're going to
follow the same process,
but I'm just going to do this a little
quicker.
We're going to set this to be around the
same time interval just for the purpose
of this demo.
writing our sanity checks. We get about
the same price. So that's right.
We can just leave this at 100. That's
fine. Now,
we want these bots to compete with each
other. Now, normally,, we would not
force these bots to compete, but I'm
trying to show a specific,, example
out here, which allows this the second
bot to purchase all of the US dollars
from the first bot. So, I'm
intentionally mispricing the second bot.
I do that by adding a 0.05 05 cent
offset to this bot's price. Now, usually
this advanced setting section is there
to correct any prices that I might see.
So, for example, if I was to go to the
Google website and find a price for a
token and that's the one I chose to use
or if there was a price that my bank was
giving me and I wanted the currency
layer price feed to come closer to that,
we have a way of
adjusting the price feed once we receive
the price feed by setting the offset
percentage which can be a negative value
and the offset as well which can be a
positive or negative value and this
allows us to make any corrections in the
price that we get. So in this video I'm
misusing this advanced setting
intentionally just for the purposes of
this demo.
Let's go ahead and create this bot.
So Madison was the first bot that we
created and Joshua was the second one.
If I click on show market, it's going to
open up the screen on the second window.
Let's see that.
Now you can see we have the USD euro
market for the same token issuer but
there's no market. Let's start the bot
for the first part which is Madison.
This is the one that is priced
correctly.
What we're going to see is that there
are some bids and asks placed against
this bot.
So you can see that the bot is pricing
this asset at close to 918
with a spread of 0.20%.
Now let's start the second bot. What
we're going to see is that this th00and
USD balance is going to get trained out
and the euro balance is going to
increase for Madison whereas Joshua is
going to see an increase in the USD
balance and a decrease in the euro
balance. So what is actually happening
is that Joshua is being priced if you
look at the mouse cursor on the right
side over here and the asks of Joshua
are hitting against sorry the bids of
Joshua are hitting against the asks of
Madison which are then crossing over and
then we get some trades.
So this is being run once every 6
seconds. So pretty soon we will see the
entire amount getting trained.
You can also see out here that we have
two additional bids at 96 which is
higher than Madison's bids.
The reason is because Joshua now has
enough
dollars to be placing these bids but
Madison is not able to consume them.
So Joshua's bids would then lie on the
order book.
So it looks like looks like we're about
done here. Madison has 0.2
left and Joshua has pretty much the
entire amount of the $2,000 USD
initially allocated for these bonds. You
can also see that the bids and the asks
have changed depending on how these
orders were placed and consumed.
Now getting back to the curl window.
So we are now ready to stop these bugs
and quit the application. But before we
quit the application, we should be very
careful to hit the stop button. Because
if we don't do that, then these bots
will although they will be stopped
running, these orders of one bid, four
asks, and four bids and zero ask would
still remain on the order book, which
would then potentially see some trades
happening without us having expected it.
So it's always important to stop these
bots. Let's go ahead and do that.
In the process of stopping these bots,
the application
kills the bots as well as deletes the
offers associated with the bot.
As you can see, these bids and asks have
gone to zero.
And the spread has gone back to negative
one as you can see in the window.
So, let's go back to the presentation.
So in summary,
we went through what is scalp, what is
the kelp GUI version one, some
improvements that we would have in the
UI, the screenshots, and a demo of how
you can create two bots in the UI to
trade against each other.
Let's go into some questions.
Thank you everyone for attending this
session and I hope that you all learned
something about the cali today. Thank
you.